THE COMMISSION

Article 1
The Commission shall act collectively in accordance with these Rules and in compliance
with the political guidelines laid down by the President.

Article 2
In compliance with the political guidelines laid down by the President, the Commission
shall establish its priorities and each year adopt its work programme.

Article 3
The President may assign to Members of the Commission special fields of activity with
regard to which they are specifically responsible for the preparation of Commission work
and the implementation of its decisions. He may also change these assignments at any time.
The President may set up working groups of Members of the Commission, whose chairpersons
he will designate.
The President shall represent the Commission. He shall designate the Members
of the Commission to assist him in this task.

Article 4
Commission decisions shall be taken:
(a) at meetings;
or
(b) by written procedure in accordance with Article 12;
or
(c) by empowerment in accordance with Article 13;
or
(d) by delegation in accordance with Article 14.


Section I

Commission meetings

Article 5
Meetings of the Commission shall be convened by the President.
The Commission shall, as a general rule, meet at least once a week.
It shall hold additional meetings whenever necessary.
Members of the Commission shall be required to attend all meetings. The President shall judge
whether Members may be released from this requirement in certain circumstances.

Article 6
The President shall adopt the agenda of each meeting, taking into account in particular
the work programme provided for in Article 2.
Without prejudice to the prerogative of the President to adopt the agenda, any proposal involving
significant expenditure must be presented in agreement with the Member of the Commission
responsible for the budget.
If a Member of the Commission proposes the inclusion of an item on the agenda, the President shall,
save in exceptional circumstances, be given nine days' notice.
The agenda and the necessary working documents shall be circulated to the Members of the Commission
within the time limit and in the working languages prescribed by the Commission in accordance
with Article 25.
Where a Member of the Commission requests that an item be withdrawn from the agenda, the item
shall, provided the President agrees, be held over for the next meeting.
The Commission may, on a proposal from the President, discuss any question which is not on the agenda
or for which the necessary working documents have been distributed late. It may decide by majority
vote not to discuss an item on the agenda.

Article 7
The number of Members present required to constitute a quorum shall be equal to a majority of the number
of Members specified in the Treaty.

Article 8
The Commission shall take decisions on the basis of proposals from one or more of its Members.
A vote shall be taken if any Member so requests. The vote may be on a proposal as originally made or
as amended by the Member or Members responsible or by the President.
Commission decisions shall be adopted if a majority of the number of Members specified in the Treaty
vote in favour. This majority shall be required irrespective of the tenor and nature of the decision.

Article 9
Meetings of the Commission shall not be public. Discussions shall be confidential.

Article 10
Save as otherwise decided by the Commission, the Secretary-General shall attend meetings.
Attendance of other persons shall be determined in accordance with the rules to give effect
to these Rules of Procedure.
In the absence of a Member of the Commission, his Chef de cabinet may attend the meeting and,
at the invitation of the President, state the views of the absent Member.

The Commission may decide to hear any other person.